Do you want subtitles for any video?
-=[ ai.OpenSubtitles.com ]=-
You're the first woman
to walk on the moon.
That'll give you some protection.
[sighs]
Being first didn't protect Gagarin.
[staff chattering]
Trajectory within mission parameters.
Give the order.
Luna 16.
you are clear to initiate deorbit burn.
[Valya] Star City. Luna 16.
Automated deorbit burn.
starting at 08:07 UTC.
Duration. 122 seconds.
[space craft rattling]
Star City.
Deorbit burn approaching the halfway mark.
[comms officer] Copy. Luna 16.
Star City. Luna 16.
Deorbit burn complete.
Copy. Luna 16. Proceed with separation.
Separation commencing in three. two. one.
[clanging]
[breathing heavily]
Separation comple--
- [clanging continues]
- [groans]
[Anastasia] Still attached.
It didn't separate.
Star City.
we have another faulty umbilical bolt.
They're dragging
the service module behind them.
- Hull is at critical temperature.
- [Chief Designer] Be calm. Be calm.
We didn't send them
to the moon just to lose them now.
The atmosphere will
burn through that cable.
[whispers] If it doesn't. they won't be
the only ones needing state funerals.
[Chief Designer] Don't be ridiculous.
The state would never pay
for our funerals.
[all chuckle]
- Give me the comms.
- Sir.
[alarm beeping rapidly]
[groans]
[Chief Designer]
My Eagles. you have my word.
that capsule is made
from the finest titanium
the Soviet Union ever produced.
It will hold until the cord breaks.
[groans]
- [Anastasia grunts]
- [groans]
[breathing heavily]
Star City. attitude corrected.
Hull temperature dropping.
Luna 16. can you confirm your trajectory?
Coming in much steeper than planned.
Where does that put them?
300... No. uh...
450 kilometers off course.
The central Siberian plateau
near Lake Baikal.
Recovery team.
do you have those coordinates?
[breathing heavily]
[groans]
[grunts]
[both grunting]
Let's get some air.
[panting]
[air lock hisses]
[groans]
[Anastasia] Who knows how long it
will take them to reach us?
[groans] I'll get the signal flare
from the emergency kit.
- [Anastasia] Valya.
- What is it?
Get the gun. Get the gun.
- [Valya] Don't move.
- [breathing shakily]
[grunts]
[huffs]
[sniffs]
[growls]
[roaring]
[gunshot]
[theme song playing]
[helicopter whirring]
[officer shouting indistinctly]
[shouting continues]
Welcome home. comrade.
May I introduce Deputy Chairman Tarasov.
Sit.
Do you recognize this woman?
- No.
- [Lyudmilla] Really?
She's Anastasia Belikova.
the first woman on the moon.
Unlike you. she knows how to behave
in the best interests of the state.
The name Anastasia Belikova...
no longer belongs to you. comrade.
I... I don't... I don't know what to say.
An inhibition you did not have
on the moon.
[Tarasov] When Colonel Raskova suggested
you fill the spot on the mission left
by your predecessor. she assured me
you would understand your position.
Yes. I did. I do.
Yet. here I am.
deep in Siberia in the back of a truck.
[Lyudmilla] If something like this
were to happen again--
It won't. Colonel Raskova.
I swear.
[Lyudmilla] Good.
- [knock on door]
- [door opens]
[Tarasov] Well. now that that's settled.
From here you will go to Ulan-Ude airfield
where you will fly to Star City
to prepare for
a parade through Red Square.
After a brief tour of our homeland.
we plan to send you to Paris
to celebrate your historic achievement
with the world press.
and as a symbol
of Soviet moral superiority.
But there is. however.
one issue we must resolve.
You cannot be the exemplar
of Soviet womanhood
as a single woman.
But I am a single woman.
Which is why you will be getting
married at the conclusion of the trip.
Married?
[stammers] Is that necessary?
Are you saying
you are unwilling to cooperate?
No.
No. no.
Um...
I-I don't know... I...
- My f-father. I will have to speak with--
- [Tarasov] Your father will be notified.
We've already made all the arrangements.
It will be a... a beautiful Soviet wedding.
Congratulations.
May I ask who I am supposed to marry?
- Are you kidding me?
- [Chief Designer] She's young.
she's not terrible looking.
and she happens to be
the most famous woman on the planet.
- Doesn't mean I want to marry her.
- Every bachelor in the Soviet Union
would give his last ruble
to be in your shoes.
Well. then ask one of them.
It's not as if you have
anyone else waiting for you. is it?
It might be good for you to settle down.
The Central Committee
want her to marry a cosmonaut.
And like it or not. you're the only one
who happens to be a bachelor.
She's not my type.
I mean. she... She's strange. She's--
Sasha. You're a good pilot.
but there's a reason
you haven't been assigned a mission yet.
Yeah. I know why.
You can't blame
all your problems on the religion
your grandparents practiced 50 years ago.
- Then why haven't I gone up?
- Because everything's a joke to you.
Sasha. You need to prove how serious
you are about this program.
What? By marrying that automaton?
I mean. who is the one
pulling a joke here?
Sasha. do you think I wanna spend my days
playing matchmaker
with the pressures I'm under?
Do you think this is
how I wanna spend my time?
I learned long ago that in order
to get what you want in this world
you have to make sacrifices.
- Are you prepared to do that?
- Yes.
Now is not the time to be pushing back
against orders. believe me.
[chattering]
Follow me.
Colonel Raskova?
[Lyudmilla] Shut the door.
Has there been a development in Berlin?
Do you think it's wise
to read the files on my desk?
I'm so sorry. Colonel. I don't know...
I don't know what I was thinking.
The Stasi have apprehended a man
they believe to be an American courier.
[Irina]
The one who carried the lunar base plans?
I speak German. if that's at all helpful.
You're very confusing to me.
Irina Vasilievna.
You are clearly ambitious. creative.
willing to do whatever you must
to achieve your aims.
Someone like that could be very useful
to the service. very useful to me.
I'm happy to be of service however I can.
Colonel.
But only to a point.
Continue your surveillance
of Valya and Tanya Mironov
when they accompany Comrade Belikova
on her tour to Paris.
And monitor our new lovebirds.
Make sure Belikova sticks to protocol.
She's proven to be unreliable.
And you must be vigilant.
Once we leave Star City. we will be
vulnerable to foreign interference.
I understand.
[chattering]
Forgive me. but thank you. Chief Designer.
For what. my child?
You're the one pouring me tea.
Yes. but you showed the world
what Soviet women are made of.
[Tarasov] She's right. comrade.
You made Soviet women
the envy of the world.
and now all our wives
won't shut up about it.
[all chuckling]
Uh. General Secretary Brezhnev
knows that your singular vision
is what has enabled us to stay ahead
of the Americans. yet again.
[chuckles]
So we brought you here today because
he wants to keep that progress going.
Well. that's music to my ears.
I brought you all copies of my proposals
for projects beyond the lunar mission
which will still be one phase of our
operations. but we must think bigger.
We must keep pushing forward
if we truly want to achieve victory
over the Americans.
Now. sending a Soviet cosmonaut--
Thank you--
to our closest neighboring planets.
- to Venus--
- [Tarasov] Comrade. if I may.
perhaps some of this
may have been possible
before the Americans stole your plans
for Zvezda.
[sighs]
The lunar base has become
Comrade Brezhnev's top priority.
This...
would be a mistake.
[chuckles]
With respect.
But Comrade Brezhnev's
wishes are very clear.
He will not allow the Americans to beat
us to a lunar base using our own design.
What are you asking of me?
We want you to move the launch
of Zvezda up.
Can it be ready for
the Paratrooper's Day celebrations?
[Chief Designer] That's in a few months.
We are more than a year away
from completing the re-design
for the lunar base.
Not to mention the fact
that we are yet to find if there's
even water on the lunar surface.
Whatever you need to get the job done.
Money. resources. man power.
You name it. you'll have it.
- This is...
- Just not time.
Forgive me. comrade. but this is absurd.
- [murmuring]
- [Chief Designer] It's absurd.
I wanna beat the Americans
as much as any man
around this table.
but a launch this early?
You would be sending these men
and women to their deaths.
Well. we have ultimate faith
in your ability
to deliver this for the General Secretary.
You are
our most valuable resource.
Now. what are the latest plans
for Comrade Belikova's tour?
[footsteps approaching]
[Anastasia] Chief Designer?
Comrade Belikova.
Do you have a moment?
It seems I do. yes.
[exhales deeply]
I was...
hoping I could volunteer myself
for the crew of Luna 17.
[chuckles] You liked it up there.
I take it?
It was the best moment of my life.
[Chief Designer]
We are all very proud of you.
But for now you must focus
on the mission in front of you.
Are you prepared for your tour?
Honestly. I'm dreading it.
[chuckles]
Leonov enjoyed his time in the sun.
I'm no Leonov.
I know.
You remind me of Yuri.
[chuckles]
He also had the chance
to abort on Vostok 1.
but risked everything
for the mission just like you.
And like him.
you'll learn to love the public eye.
Will you be in Paris with us.
Chief Designer?
I am...
forbidden from leaving the Soviet Union.
- Really?
- For my own safety...
or so they say.
You have a good trip. Comrade Belikova.
Make us proud.
Thank you.
[child] Where are you going?
Well. the people I work with.
they're going on a trip.
So I must go too.
[child] I heard Natalia speaking
on the telephone.
She said she can't talk around you
because you work in building 12.
Oh. well. she's just jealous
because she doesn't work there herself.
Come on.
Will you turn the television off?
[news reporter] After drawing
unprecedented crowds
in the capital of our motherland.
cosmonaut Anastasia Belikova
continues her tour
with visits to the capitals of
the Soviet Socialist Republics.
She is warmly welcomed everywhere
by the workers of the USSR.
Soon to be married to a fellow cosmonaut.
the two will head to Paris
for a celebration of her achievement
with the world press.
["Tu Danses Dans Mes Bras" playing]
[Sasha] Bonjour.
Hello!
Greetings from Moscow.
This is amazing.
It's better than I imagined it would be.
Come on. cheer up.
They're lining up just to see you. Look.
- [crowd clamoring]
- [fan] Anastasia!
- [clamoring continues]
- [camera shutters clicking]
[journalist speaking French]
[Rem sighs]
We'd be lucky to complete
building Zvezda in 15 months.
How are we meant to do it
in a fraction of that?
We didn't beat the Americans
by being cautious. Why start now?
But the N-1 barely has enough thrust
to launch the current lunar modules.
If we add anything on to them.
there's no way we can launch.
[Rem] We're back to where we started.
Why'd you have to be
so negative all the time. Rem?
Realism is not negativity.
- I'm just--
- [Sergei] What about inflatables?
[clears throat] We. um...
We use inflatable compartments
to expand the living space
of the lunar lander.
just like the air lock
for Leonov's space walk.
If we inflate it after we touched down.
then we can still use
the same landing protocols.
- You want our lunar base to be a tent?
- [chuckles]
[Sergei]
There is no time for anything else.
The mission would r-require three people.
Two on the surface
and one to remain in orbit.
You would still have
to figure out how to fit them
in the current craft which was
built to launch with two. but...
[chuckles] ...you could start with this
and then see where you go next.
An intriguing idea.
But it's late.
Let's. uh...
go home. get some sleep.
and meet again in the morning.
[suspenseful music playing]
[locks clicking]
[sniffs]
[elevator bell dings]
[Kalinsky] You will change
for the reception
to meet members of the world press.
The plane back to Moscow
departs early tomorrow.
so you can reach Rostov
in time for the wedding.
The press clippings from Moscow are there.
- Comrade Kalinsky. I--
- Do not linger.
You must make a good impression.
- [sighs]
- [door closes]
[sighs]
[chuckling]
[muffled screaming]
[rustling over wire]
- [Valya] What are you doing?
- [Tanya] Nothing.
Just admiring this bottle of perfume.
Don't touch that.
[Tanya] Why not? They're gifts.
What else are they for?
[sniffs]
[chuckles]
They're gonna smell that on you.
They'll think you've been seduced
- by the luxuries of Paris.
- [chuckles]
I am being seduced
by the luxuries of Paris.
You know. they might be listening.
[laughs] I'm putting on perfume!
Nobody cares. Valyush.
Let's just have some fun tonight.
[knocks on door]
Colonel Raskova.
[scoffs]
See. Valyush?
And you were worried.
Uh. I thought we could head
to the reception together.
[Valya] I've gotta finish this.
Just go without me.
- I'll go downstairs with Anastasia.
- [Tanya] No. no. darling. I'll wait.
[Valya] It's fine. Just go.
[stammers] All right.
Just don't be too long.
[door opens. closes]
Do we have a device in the elevator?
No. No. Colonel.
Mmm.
[elevator bell dings]
You're avoiding me?
I'm with my husband.
[sniffs] You smell good.
Stop.
Let's get away tonight.
I found out about this club.
not far. that plays that music--
I'm not going anywhere with you. Sasha.
Is this about Anastasia?
I didn't have a choice.
I know you didn't.
Then why are you upset?
You're the one who's actually married.
Yeah. you're right.
Maybe this is what we both needed.
[people in reception chattering]
You don't mean that.
- [sighs]
- [zipping over wire]
Comrade Belikova.
how's she done this far on the tour?
Very well.
She's still not exhibited any of the
problematic behaviors she had on the moon.
Get your coat.
- Where are we going?
- Well. you said you speak German.
You can finally put that education
of yours to good use.
Germany?
[Lyudmilla] The courier has yet to confess
who gave him the lunar base plans.
And I have grown tired
of the Stasi's incompetence.
What about Comrade Belikova?
Galytzin can. uh.
handle your duties during your absence.
Get a move on. we have a plane to catch.
[in French] My dear friends...
my dear friends...
Ladies and gentlemen
please join me in thanking
Anastasia Belikova
for joining us to celebrate
her incredible achievement.
Press from all over the world
have united
with the people of France here tonight
in honoring
the first woman to walk on the moon.
[classical music playing]
[Sasha sighs]
[in English] What a circus.
I wonder how Yana
would've handled all this.
[chuckles]
She would've conquered France in a day.
- [chuckles]
- [Tanya] Ah. hello. darling.
[kisses]
So. how's the engagement going?
In love yet?
Hardly.
- Just being around her is...
- [photographer] Look here!
...torture.
- [chuckles]
- So marriage.
- [scoffs]
- [chuckling]
[photographers clamoring]
[photographer] Anastasia!
[clamoring overlapping. echoing]
[melancholy music playing]
[muffled clamoring]
[gasps]
I'm sorry. I need to leave.
Excuse me.
["Gavotte from 'Cinderella' Op. 95. No.2"
playing]
[knocks on door]
- Chief Designer.
- Good evening. Comrade Nikulov.
Uh. apologies. Chief.
May I come in?
- Please! Please.
- [door closes]
Well. I'm-I'm so sorry.
Are you expecting someone?
No.
Mmm.
Uh. I... [stammers]
...I know that Fyodorov is. um...
Is. uh...
Forbidden.
How can I help you. Chief?
During Luna 16.
how did you know the S-band antenna
would be within Anastasia's reach?
Well. I memorized the plans.
But we moved the position
of the antenna during the final assembly.
Yes.
and I read the engineering reports
coming from Baikonur.
That's thousands
of pages of documentation. That's...
I've lots of time on my hands.
Yes.
It's a beautiful evening. Sergei.
Shall we go for a walk?
[balcony door opens]
[grunts]
[Anastasia sighs]
[sighing]
Sometimes I wish I never went up there.
[chuckles]
What do you mean?
When you're on the surface...
there's no sound.
Just silence.
It's like I could finally breathe.
[chuckles shakily]
[sniffles]
[gentle music playing]
My grandfather used to say...
when God wants to curse you.
he makes you happy.
[sighs]
Do you wanna get out of here?
Champagne went to her head.
[elevator bell dings]
[Anastasia groans]
[Sasha sighs]
[Anastasia groaning]
I'll make sure she gets to her room. okay?
[door opens. closes]
Where are we going?
This way!
- [keys jingle]
- [lock clicks]
[Lyudmilla sighs]
Tell him he can leave.
[in German] Thank you. You can go.
[in English] I need you to translate
exactly what I say to him
and exactly what he says back.
There can be no equivocation.
Do you understand?
Yes.
Ask him if he fought
in the Great Patriotic War.
[in German] Did you fight
in the Great Patriotic War?
I was on the front at Kursk.
[Irina. in English]
He was on the front at Kursk.
[chuckles]
Tell him this may not be
the first time we have met.
[in German] She says this may not be
the first time you have met.
[in English] Let's hope things go
better for you this time.
[Irina speaking German]
[chuckles]
[ominous music playing]
- Chief.
- [shushes]
[locks clicking]
Come on.
[Sergei] What is this?
[Chief Designer] Ghosts...
of past missions.
Voskhod.
Vostok.
Soyuz.
But we can bring them back to life.
Just like Fyodorov said.
Immortality. Sergei.
Victory over the final enemy.
Brezhnev and the committee.
they only care about planting flags
in the moon.
squabbling over handfuls of dirt.
If we truly...
want to expand our grasp
of the universe. of...
of infinity. of immortality...
we can't stop there.
Venus.
[Chief Designer] Yes.
[stammers] But Brezhnev?
Can be persuaded to see beyond
his eyebrows when the time is right.
[Chief Designer chuckles]
In the meantime.
we must proceed in secrecy.
Only a select few can know
what we're doing here.
How would we even. um...
An effort like this.
it requires vast resources.
Well. they'll give me whatever I want
so long as they think
it's for the lunar base.
There must be more senior engineers
that you would...
prefer to involve in this.
- I'm not the obvious choice.
- Don't underestimate yourself. Sergei.
You have a passion.
And the flexibility of mind.
But before you agree.
you must understand you'll be disobeying
direct orders from the Central Committee
and misappropriating state property.
The consequences can be...
quite severe if discovered.
When do we start?
Now.
[Sasha] Think this is it.
[lively music playing in bar]
[chuckles]
What did I say? Huh?
[Sasha] Come on.
- Sasha! Sasha!
- I can't hear you.
I can't hear you. sorry.
[sniffs]
Stasia.
Here.
- Sasha. I think this is a bad idea.
- One drink.
And if you wanna go. I'll take you back
so that Arkady can
tuck you in for the night.
[news reporter speaking French]
[Tanya] Valya. have you seen my perfume?
Valya?
- [whispering] Valya?
- I keep thinking...
Yana should've been the one
being celebrated here tonight.
She deserved it.
She was special.
And we knew.
from the moment we started training.
- [sighs]
- It's like. um...
Listen. you're a good man.
It's why I fell in love with you.
But there's nothing you could've done.
[news reporter continues speaking French]
[music continues in bar]
[chuckles]
Get back. Make some space.
Anastasia. this is for you.
- [chuckles]
- [patrons cheering]
Whoo!
- Whoa!
- [cheering]
Hey! Hey!
[laughs]
[patron] Bonsoir.
I've been looking for
a moment to speak to you all night.
I wouldn't normally make an
approach in public like this.
but it's hard to get close
to you without being seen.
If you are not happy back home...
we can get you out.
What do you mean?
The Americans. they have a place for you.
[chuckles] No.
I will never betray my country.
In case you change your mind.
["Mother Popcorn" playing]
- You okay?
- Yes. I'm just tired suddenly.
[speaking French]
I think it's time to go.
Yeah. [clears throat]
[sighs]
[in German] What is the name of the person
who gave you the documents
to bring to the Americans?
How many times do I have to say it?
I admit that I
got all the documents from a blind
drop in Volkspark Friedrichshain.
When I got to West Berlin
I threw the envelope in
a refuse bin on Bornholmer Strasse.
[in English] He says the same thing
as every other time. exactly.
No deviation.
Coffee?
No? Shame.
Such a lovely city. Berlin.
- [Irina speaking German]
- I remember the first time I came here
driving a T-34 down Friedrichstrasse.
[Irina speaks German]
[in English] Slow going at first.
what with Nazi bodies
strewn all over the place.
[speaks German]
[in English] Yes?
[whispering indistinctly]
[Lyudmilla. in English]
I'll be ten minutes.
If he hasn't given us a name by then.
I'm just going to shoot him in the head.
[door closes]
[in German] What is the name of the person
who gave you the documents?
[chuckles]
I know nothing.
[sighs]
[whispering] I've...
I've realized something about you tonight.
You really are a terrible dancer.
[chuckles]
[Galytzin] They've returned.
Should we have them detained now?
No.
I need to speak to Comrade Ducorneau.
Well?
I made the approach.
You don't have to worry about Belikova.
- She's loyal.
- Good.
[sighs]
[in German] Listen to me.
You need to tell me what you know.
before she returns.
I've seen what she's capable of.
I can't tell you what I don't know.
You must tell me who gave you
the plans before she comes back.
It's for your own good.
You are a good person.
You are better than these Stasi pigs.
- Help me.
- What do you think I'm trying to do?
Tell me the name and I will!
I don't know it.
Tell me the name.
No. No.
[screaming]
[courier continues screaming]
Tell me the name!
He lives in Rykestrasse!
I don't know anything else!
I could only get things across the border.
I told him I couldn't help
get anything into Star City.
[screams]
What do you mean get
anything into Star City?
[whimpers. breathes heavily]
...into Star City?
That's what you said.
No. I didn't. I didn't.
What did they want you
to get into Star City?
- Huh?
- I'm telling you. it never happened!
It never happened!
[Lyudmilla. in English]
Well done. comrade.
[door closes]
[courier. in German] They never told me
what they wanted to smuggle in.
I swear.
Please. my wife...
[sobbing]
Please. she didn't know any of this...
Do not worry.
Your wife won't be seeing you
for a very long time.
[church bell tolling]
[camera shutter clicking]
[Kalinsky. in English] And one more.
That's fine.
Your vows.
I especially like what they did here.
"Built on love. understanding. respect."
Hmm.
[Anastasia] Hello. Papa.
Nastya.
We missed you at the parade in Red Square.
You should stand up straight
when you're speaking.
Mmm.
This is Aleksandr Dmitrievich Polivanov.
Comrade Belikov.
it's a pleasure to meet you.
And please call me Sasha.
So you're marrying my Nastya?
I am.
Hmm.
We should walk over to the hall.
Come. Comrade Polivanov.
Time to take your place.
[Sasha] We don't have to do it. you know.
What do you mean?
Get married.
Yeah. but if we don't. we--
Then we don't.
[door opens]
[Kalinsky] Sasha. come.
[sighs]
There's my nesting eagle.
Chief.
Hi.
- You all right?
- Yeah. Just...
- nervous.
- Oh.
He was the same on our wedding day.
I would like to offer you my dacha
on Lake Beloye for the honeymoon.
Thank you. Chief.
It will have to be brief though. Sasha.
[sniffs] You will need to return
to Star City to begin your training.
Vladimir. How are you?
- How are you?
- How's the wife?
[attendees chattering]
[registrar] We are gathered here
to officially register the marriage
between Anastasia Vladimirovna Belikova
- and Aleksandr Dmitrievich Polivanov.
- When will she be going up again?
She will not.
She's. um...
too valuable to the state.
[registrar] Comrade Polivanov.
would you care to recite your vows?
And I don't have the heart to tell her.
I. Aleksandr Dmitrievich Polivanov...
in the presence of my family.
friends and the Soviet State.
take you. Anastasia Vladimirovna Belikova.
to be my lawful wife
in this equitable union built on love...
understanding. and respect.
[registrar] Comrade Belikova.
would you care to recite your vows?
[Anastasia breathes deeply]
I. Anastasia Vladimirovna Belikova.
in the presence of my family.
friends and the Soviet State. take you.
Aleksandr Dmitrievich Polivanov.
as my lawful husband
in this equitable union built on love.
respect. and understanding.
[pensive music playing]
We are under threat.
Security status has been raised
to level one.
I want to know what
every person is doing before they do it.
every person is saying before they say it.
I want to know what every person
is thinking before they think it.
Star City is now on the frontline.
So...
let's begin.
Advertise your product or brand here
contact www.OpenSubtitles.org today